# Forex Trading System

This project implements several
APIs that allow users to top up their account, fetch live FX conversion rates, perform
FX conversions, and check their account balances.

## Features

- Top up account
- Fetch live FX conversion rates
- FX conversions
- Check account balances

## Instructions

- The first step to be done as soon as the program starts is to create a user using the API mentioned in the Readme or Swagger yaml provided in the repo in order to make use of topup and get available balance.

- For the project, I have considered only USD to JPY conversion and vice versa, as well as the Fx-rates fetched is only of USD/JPY. All the other currencies has been considered as invalid.

- The "id" mentioned in the topup and balance API endpoint is the object id created by MongoDB at the time of user creation. So to use those endpoints we require the object id generated by MongoDB at the time of user creation.

- The project uses MongoDB as the database and Alphavantage API to fetch FX conversion rates.

- The API Documentation has been done with the help of Swagger and the yaml file has been added in the repo.

- Swagger folder contains the YAML swagger file in which API documentation has been done. The Folder also contains the screenshot of it. We can access the Swagger IO while running the project locally on the system by going to the http://localhost:PORT_NUMBER/api

## Tech Stack

**Server:** NestJs

**Database:** MongoDB

## Project Timeline

This project helped me a lot to up-skill. At the time when this task was assigned to me, I had no idea about NestJs at all. I have already worked with ExpressJs for backend but never with NestJs.

- 1st Day: Passed by just studying about NestJs like how it works and how can we implement to create a backend application through its Documentation and YouTube videos. Since many methods and functionalities were similar to ExpressJs and Decorators/Annotations were similar to Spring-Boot, so thats why NestJs didn't trouble alot.

- 2nd Day: Started working on the backend application with NestJs and created all the controllers, API endpoints and related services.

- 3rd Day: Connected the application with MongoDB and made few changes in the business logic, gave the final touchup to the application like validations and all, documented the API endpoints with Swagger and created the Readme File.

## Environment Variables

To run this project, you will need to add the following environment variables to your .env file

`DB_URL` -> This project uses MongoDB as the database, so one would require their MongoDB url to use the database.

`API_KEY` -> This project uses Alphavantage API to fetch FX conversion rates, so we also need the API_KEY from Alphavantage, so that we can fetch the FX conversion rates easily.

## API Reference

#### Topup Account

```http
  POST /accounts/topup/{id}
```

| Parameter | Description                                  |
| :-------- | :------------------------------------------- |
| `id`      | **Required**. Object Id generated by MongoDB |

#### Check account balance

```http
  GET /accounts/balance/{id}
```

| Parameter | Description                                  |
| :-------- | :------------------------------------------- |
| `id`      | **Required**. Object Id generated by MongoDB |

#### Fetch live FX conversion rates

```http
  GET /fx-rates
```

#### Perform FX conversion

```http
  POST /fx-conversion
```

#### Create User

```http
  POST /user/create
```

## Run Locally

Clone the project

```bash
  git clone https://github.com/animeshyash/Fx-Trading-System
```

Go to the project directory

```bash
  cd Fx-Trading-System
```

Install dependencies

```bash
  npm install
```

Start the server

```bash
  npm run start
```

Watch Mode

```bash
  npm run start:dev
```

## Authors

- [@Animesh Yash](https://www.github.com/animeshyash)
